. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . .A Hundred and Twenty Muscles. . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .by Rachel Heng. . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .

Whiter than the whites of her eyes and softer 
than a cloud, his nose was a damp pink upside 
down triangle, wobbling nervously. Someone had 
brought him in for show and tell. As they 
passed him around, their small hands were 
reverent, tongues peeking out of parted lips, 
eyes afraid to blink. His name was Domino.

When it came to Lea's turn, she held him up to 
her face. He wriggled between her hands, a warm,
alive thing. She felt his delicate ribs under 
the flesh and fur, thin bones interlocking like 
puzzle pieces, protecting some squirming secret 
within.

Lea ran one finger along the tracks of his 
backbone. Coccyx, sacrum, lumbar, thoracic, 
cervical, she recited silently. Over a hundred 
and twenty muscles in the human spine; how many 
in a rabbit's?

They had learnt about nerves and cartilage and 
skeletons in Biology, but this was something 
different. She felt where bone met tendon in his 
taut hind legs, the way his ribcage gave way to 
a sagging, tender belly. She fingered his ears, 
folded like leaves, and then, taking one between
thumb and forefinger, she pulled gently.

"Come on Fishy," someone whined. "Hurry up. 
You've had your go."

Lea passed Domino on, a sharp stab of loss 
prickling as the soft mass left her hands. She 
watched as her classmates cooed and stroked and 
cuddled. A tiny flame seemed to burn within her.

At recess Lea crept back into the empty 
classroom. She picked her way through errant 
backpacks strewn across aisles, chairs pushed 
back from their desks haphazardly, cardigans and
scarves lying pooled on the floor.

When she slid the door of the cage open, her 
movements were silent as a cat. Cradling Domino 
once more, she felt again how flexible his ribs 
were. A birdcage in a fairytale, wrought of 
wispy tarnished gold, curving gracefully around 
an invisible treasure.

She felt the strength in her own small fingers, 
and she squeezed. Gently at first, as if testing
the firmness of an orange. As Domino squirmed, 
the flame in her belly flared, purple and hot, 
and she pressed harder, harder still.

He was still struggling when the bones snapped, 
his black beady eyes bulging like tadpoles. The 
blood ran hot and fast in her veins, a ball of 
white emotion expanding in her chest. She 
squeezed harder and harder, even after 
everything was loose and crunchy and Domino was 
still, even after her fingernails were tipped 
with red.

Finally the heat subsided. Lea could hear her 
own breathing, the thump of blood in her ears. 
She could hear shouts and laughter from her 
classmates down the hall, where they sat in the 
cafeteria with their bowls of iron-enriched 
spinach and eggs. In a flash, Lea saw how Betty 
would cry, the rest of the class looking on in 
horror as she cradled the cold, stiff ball of 
fur in her arms. Maybe some of the others would 
cry too.

She imagined owning up to it. Waving her rust-
coloured fingernails in Betty's pretty freckled 
face. How Betty would stop crying, her porcelain
eyes wide with fear. They'd stop calling Lea 
Fishy, fishy fish fish fish. The rest of the 
class - all secretly jealous of Betty with her 
tight golden curls and menagerie of furry living
things - would cheer, rise up and crown Lea 
their queen.

A door slammed somewhere in the building. The 
heavy thump set Lea's heart pounding again.

There would be no cheers. She would be labelled 
a Potential Threat, like dark-eyed Dennis 
Feldstrom, who tripped a boy while playing tag 
one day. Despite the mandatory protective pads, 
the boy had managed to scratch his shin and his 
parents threatened to sue. Dennis Feldstrom 
disappeared. The whispers had it that he'd been 
transferred to a school for sub-100s, somewhere 
in the outer boroughs.

Lea stroked Domino's matted fur, trying to take 
in what she had done. He is dead, she repeated 
to herself. I did it. I made him into this cold 
and sticky thing. She waited. But there was 
nothing.

The ceiling fans circled like birds of prey. On 
the whiteboard was a list of adjectives the 
class had written, something they did for every 
show and tell session. Halfway down the list, in
Lea's handwriting, was the word Pink. Their 
teacher had cooed, said something about his cute
little nose, but that wasn't what Lea had meant.
She'd meant the hidden insides of his paper-thin
ears, the hot, invisible flesh beneath the fur, 
the web of skin between foot and back leg that 
was only revealed mid-kick.

Lea closed the door of Domino's cage. Walking 
over to her desk, she pulled out a brown, neatly
folded lunch bag from her backpack. Out went the
kale chips and nutribars, in went Domino, head 
First.

There was no one in the hallway. The thumping of
her heart seemed to echo down the empty passage.
She felt sure that at any moment, a teacher or 
classmate would come out of hiding, fingers 
accusing, voices raising the alarm. Her sweaty 
hands gripped the paper bag more tightly.

She passed like a ghost down the hallways, 
moisture gathering behind her knees, bangs 
clumping. The dumpster was out back. As she 
lifted the creaking lid, Lea wondered if she 
should say something, like she'd seen murderers 
do in movies. He was a good rabbit, and always 
liked being cuddled, something like that. But 
the thought of his snuffly mouth and velvety 
fur kindled the same flame as before, a strange 
knot of heat that made her want to kick and 
scream. She flung the bag above her head and 
into the dumpster.

Because she'd left the cage door open, everyone 
thought that Domino had escaped. All afternoon 
they combed the hallways and cupboards, crawling
on hands and knees to peer under desks, calling 
his name as if a rabbit were capable of 
responding.

Lea went along with it, nervously at first, sure
that the deception showed on her face. But once 
she realised no one suspected anything other 
than poor Betty's carelessness, Lea went about 
the charade boldly, calling louder than anyone 
and inspecting the back of the classroom so 
thoroughly that her knees turned black with 
dust.

When her mother picked her up from school that 
day, Lea was in high spirits. She told her all 
about Domino and how mysteriously he'd 
disappeared, how furry and docile he'd been. She
said she hoped he hadn't been run over by a car 
and that he'd found a nice garden to live in, 
one full of lettuce and tomatoes. She asked her 
mother if rabbits went to heaven, like dogs. She
talked and talked and talked, stopping only 
when, on the way to the car, they passed the 
dumpster.

-