. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . .Jackalope Run by CJ Hauser. . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .

It's a sloppy, grey Connecticut winter, and 
this is a bad town for Mexican food. You are a 
white girl in the vestibule of Rancho Allegre 
waiting to pick up three Chile Relleno dinners.
 
You will pay with your father's American 
Express card. You are thirty years old, 
unemployed, and have recently moved in with 
your parents. 

There is a mural of jackalopes on the wall 
which you have always thought was too good to 
be in a place like this-the detail of their 
tender eyes and lashes, the velvet of their 
antlers, the taught-stretched skin between the 
bones of their hind legs. A mariachi band is 
playing and this makes you sad because a 
mariachi band in wintery Connecticut makes you 
assume that no one's life plan works out the 
way it was meant to. Still, you love when they 
sing Cielito Lindo and when it sticks in your 
head all week it will be the best thing you 
have going for you. 

From the front desk, Flori says, five minutes 
and winks at you. You have known Flori since 
you were five. You were so shy as a child that 
your parents decided you were not allowed to 
eat anything you couldn't speak up and order 
yourself. Back then, Flori was a waiter (before 
he fell in love with Angela, the hostess, and 
they had three children, and started Rancho 
Allegre, and moved down the street from you) 
and when your parents told you to speak up you 
made whispering sounds that were in no way 
comprehensible but Flori said, Pollo Frito, of 
course, and he brought you a plate. You were so 
grateful to him that you drew him a picture of 
a chili pepper on the back of your menu that 
said GRACIAS! and Flori got it framed. She's 
going to be an artist, he told your parents, 
and he wasn't wrong, even if you couldn't hack 
it in New York. 

You are staring at that framed pepper, melted 
road salt leaking from your boots, when a guy 
you know from high school, Rob Gordon, walks in 
with his wife and kid. You press yourself 
against the vestibule's fake terra cotta wall 
to avoid him. You are inches away from the back 
of the man seated there, the side of your knee 
against his chair. The man is saying that if 
the woman he is with has told the restaurant 
that it's his birthday he is going to be very 
angry. If that mariachi band sings Feliz 
Cumpleanos to him he swears he will lose his 
god damn shit. The woman says she thought he 
was teasing. Why would I have been teasing? he 
says. Your knee is actually pressed against his 
back, you realize. 

From the kitchen comes beautiful Angela, in a 
white pressed shirt and black vest. She sets a 
plate of sopapillas on the man's table, 
smelling of sugar and honey and cinnamon and 
fry oil, birthday candles crackling away. The 
mariachi band makes their way over and the man 
says, just very softly, Oh, as the whole 
restaurant turns their attention toward him. 
The mariachis draw in their collective breath, 
but before they can start singing you twist 
over the man's shoulder, your cheek against 
his, and with one great puff, you blow out his 
candles. 

The mariachis exhale. Angela is confused. The 
man turns to look at you and his face, somehow, 
is not the way you imagined it to be. You'd 
pictured him as younger or more like Rob Gordon 
or more like your father or more like yourself 
but his face is none of those. Flori comes over 
clapping. Hooray! and leads you away by the 
elbow as the rest of the restaurant starts 
clapping tentatively. They are all looking at 
you and not at the man. You sign your father's 
name to the credit card slip quickly and you 
say to Flori thank you, sorry, thank you, as he 
hands you the order. The brown paper bag of 
takeout is warm against your chest and you hug 
it to you all the way to your car. The 
reflection of the restaurant's pink neon lights 
warps on the icy blacktop as you jangle your 
keys free. 
