. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . .Sweetness by Toni Morrison. . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . -- . . . . . . . . . . .

It's not my fault. So you can't blame me. I 
didn't do it and have no idea how it happened. 
It didn't take more than an hour after they 
pulled her out from between my legs for me to 
realize something was wrong. Really wrong. She 
was so black she scared me. Midnight black, 
Sudanese black. I'm light-skinned, with good 
hair, what we call high yellow, and so is Lula 
Ann's father. Ain't nobody in my family anywhere
near that color. Tar is the closest I can think
of, yet her hair don't go with the skin. It's 
different-straight but curly, like the hair on 
those naked tribes in Australia. You might think
she's a throwback, but a throwback to what? You
should've seen my grandmother; she passed for
white, married a white man, and never said 
another word to any one of her children. Any 
letter she got from my mother or my aunts she 
sent right back, unopened. 

Finally they got the 
message of no message and let her be. Almost all
mulatto types and quadroons did that back in the
day-if they had the right kind of hair, that is.
Can you imagine how many white folks have Negro 
blood hiding in their veins? Guess. Twenty per 
cent, I heard. My own mother, Lula Mae, could 
have passed easy, but she chose not to. She told
me the price she paid for that decision. When 
she and my father went to the courthouse to get 
married, there were two Bibles, and they had to 
put their hands on the one reserved for Negroes.
The other one was for white people's hands. The 
Bible! Can you beat it? My mother was a 
housekeeper for a rich white couple. They ate 
every meal she cooked and insisted she scrub 
their backs while they sat in the tub, and God 
knows what other intimate things they made her 
do, but no touching of the same Bible.

Some of you probably think it's a bad thing to 
group ourselves according to skin color-the 
lighter the better-in social clubs, 
neighborhoods, churches, sororities, even 
colored schools. But how else can we hold on to 
a little dignity? How else can we avoid being 
spit on in a drugstore, elbowed at the bus stop,
having to walk in the gutter to let whites have 
the whole sidewalk, being charged a nickel at 
the grocer's for a paper bag that's free to 
white shoppers? Let alone all the name-calling. 
I heard about all of that and much, much more. 
But because of my mother's skin color she wasn't
stopped from trying on hats or using the ladies'
room in the department stores. And my father 
could try on shoes in the front part of the shoe
store, not in a back room. Neither one of them 
would let themselves drink from a "Colored Only"
fountain, even if they were dying of thirst.

I hate to say it, but from the very beginning in
the maternity ward the baby, Lula Ann, 
embarrassed me. Her birth skin was pale like all
babies', even African ones, but it changed fast
I thought I was going crazy when she turned 
blue-black right before my eyes. I know I went 
crazy for a minute, because-just for a few 
seconds-I held a blanket over her face and 
pressed. But I couldn't do that, no matter how 
much I wished she hadn't been born with that 
terrible color. I even thought of giving her 
away to an orphanage someplace. But I was scared
to be one of those mothers who leave their 
babies on church steps. Recently, I heard about 
a couple in Germany, white as snow, who had a 
dark-skinned baby nobody could explain. Twins, 
I believe-one white, one colored. But I don't 
know if it's true. All I know is that, for me, 
nursing her was like having a pickaninny sucking
my teat. I went to bottle-feeding soon as I got 
Home.

My husband, Louis, is a porter, and when he got 
back off the rails he looked at me like I really
was crazy and looked at the baby like she was 
from the planet Jupiter. He wasn't a cussing 
man, so when he said, "God damn! What the hell 
is this?" I knew we were in trouble. That was 
what did it-what caused the fights between me 
and him. It broke our marriage to pieces. We had
three good years together, but when she was born
he blamed me and treated Lula Ann like she was a
stranger-more than that, an enemy. He never 
touched her.
